the UN Secretary General Antonio gues
has visited the RFA border crossing
between Egypt and Gaza he called for it
to be opened so that Aid can reach
Palestinians Gaza is currently
experiencing severe shortages of fuel
food and medicines the United Nations
says more than 2 million people are at
risk of dehydration and waterborne
diseases now Aid is currently piling up
at the rougher border crossing but it is
not being allowed into to the territory
United Nations has called for Aid to
return to precon conflict levels of 100
trucks a day speaking at the border
crossing the UN Chief said the difficult
situation required extraordinary
humanitarian
measures unfortunately this is not a
normal humanitarian operation it's an
operation in a war zone and that is the
reason why I have appealed for a
humanitarian ceas
fire not that I consider that
humanitarian ceas fire is a precondition
for humanitarian delivery we don't want
to punish the Gaza people Twice first
because of the war and second because of
the lack of humanitarian aid but it is
clear that humanitarian C fire would
make uh things much easier and much
safer for everybody
okay let's cross straight to Tanya ker
our correspondent in Tel Aviv Tanya tell
us why has it been so difficult to open
the rougher border crossing and to let
the aid get through into
Gaza well I think we just heard it from
the UN secretary uh General himself it's
a extremely complicated situation in an
active war zone and there need to be all
the actors that need to agree on opening
uh this uh Crossing we understand that
under us pressure mediated by US
President Joe Biden himself as he has
said um the uh border crossing together
with mediating between Egypt and Israel
the border crossing should open to get
those trucks that have been waiting
there for days into Gaza but this hasn't
happened yet there were expectation that
there might be some opening uh today we
understand that uh in Israel from
sources here there's still political
considerations and implications that are
hindering this but also from Egyptian
sources the situation is extremely
difficult uh there's still Israeli air
strikes also in southern Gaza there have
been air strikes in the area of the
crossing they say also that roads need
to be uh repaired uh before trucks can
go through so it is a very complicated
and volatile uh situation uh where
different actors you know have to agree
on on on going ahead with this the uh un
Secretary General also made a very clear
point of calling for a humanitarian
ceasefire is that likely at
all it doesn't look very likely at this
point if it's already so difficult to
open this border crossing uh for goods
we are not even talking about opening
the other part of this Crossing to open
it up for people um there was some point
in the past two weeks that we've been
seeing that people with dual nationality
or foreign National Palestinians could
maybe be evacuated through uh this
Crossing now this has been all closed
now for the past two weeks so it's so
important uh you know to get people out
and get the humanitarian Aid in and for
the moment um it will be very difficult
also for the humanitarians you know once
if this border crossing is open and the
trucks come in also to distribute it
it's a major challenge we understand
that uh according to the Israeli army
they they defined a very small area in
Gaza now in the South as a safe safe
Zone where people could go to take
shelter because also air strikes are
continuing there's also sporadic rocket
fires that coming out of Gaza but people
IAL to in Gaza said it's the it's the
bombardment of Gaza that is so difficult
to endure because people are really
fearing for their lives and they can't
really go from one place to the next so
that will also be difficult then to
deliver uh this Aid and this is
certainly also a major challenge for the
humanitarian organization ations but for
the moment of course first of all they
need to focus on getting this Aid into
Gaza Tanya we're going to come back to
you in just a moment we're going to take
a look now a closer look at the
situation on the ground in Gaza as we
were just uh hearing Israeli forces
struck Targets in the Gaza Strip that
was happening into the early hours of
Friday morning including in the south of
the territory where Israel had told
gazans to head for their own safety
Hamas Rockets sh drop back into Israel
as well overnight and all of this is
happening as Palestinians wait for
Relief efforts to begin to cross the
border from Egypt let's take a
look they are ready and
waiting a percentage of these Aid trucks
is supposed to be allowed through the
Rafa crossing the only Crossing into
Gaza not controlled by
Israel 20 in all Aid trucks for Gaza
there 2 and a half million people that
need assistance 20 trucks is a drop in
the ocean of need right now in
Gaza on the other side of the Rafa
Crossing there is Mayhem and
despair even if Southern Gaza is where
Israel told Northern gazans to go for
safety's sake heavy air strikes in conun
in the South meant the overflowing
Nasser Hospital took in even more
wounded for critical care there's no
safety there's nowhere safe in gasa you
have to be ready to die and to just stay
in your house when there is a threat
originating
or being conducted against Israel from
the south then we will strike
absolutely Israel's Army will soon move
into the Gaza Strip Israel's defense
minister told the troops massing on its
border I promise you that whoever sees
Gaza now from afar will see it from the
side good luck an Israeli ground
operation will likely focus at first on
the North with Hamas expected to put up
Fierce resistance all of that pushing
even more gazin Southward in need of
food water medical
supplies and back on the other side of
the Rafa Crossing aid supplies stream
into a nearby airport destined to join
the backup waiting to get into Southern
Gaza okay let's go back to our
correspondent t who's in Tel Aviv at the
Israeli ground operation that we were
just hearing about in that report into
Gaza is expected do we know why it
hasn't started
yet well from what we understand there
are certainly strategic implications
here in considerations why it hasn't
started yet I mean it's expected that uh
it's not an if but when it will happen
uh we won't of course know when it will
happen beforehand there's a certain
element of surprise we understand from
the army that there are certain
reorganizing regrouping around the
Border where there is mass deployment
you know all the tanks you can see that
there's a closed military area all
around the Gaza Strip so uh we are
waiting for this to happen in the
meantime you know the massive air strike
campaign is continuing also with
artillery fire and from the naval forces
in the Mediterranean Sea uh on Gaza but
there are also other considerations
because Israel is also looking towards
the uh border with Lebanon uh in the in
north in the North of Israel and we
heard this morning again another town in
the North of Israel has has been given
an evacuation order kirat Shoni so that
people should leave I think there's a
big concern here that this might become
a wider conflict that the libanese
militant Shad Group hasah which is
backed by Iran might uh join uh the war
they have threatened that if a ground
offensive uh will happen so there a lot
of concern here also and that would
implicate also on the Strategic
decisions here of the army when to do
the ground offensive antania can I ask
you about the hostages uh taken by Hamas
is there any word at all on the on the
fate of those hostages being
held well there was one video released
about one uh young uh Israeli woman this
week uh from uh the Hamas militant group
showing her somewhere in Gaza we also
heard um from the Israeli Army uh today
another confirmation that over 200
hostages are now being confirmed their
families have been notified because what
has been going on here in the past two
weeks is that a lot of families do not
know what happened to their loved ones
uh those who have not seen uh their
relatives being taken away on those uh
very Haring uh videos um but uh the Army
now said that over 20 of those hostages
that are confirmed to be in Gaza are
children under the age of 18 uh 10 to 20
are over 60 uh most of them are alive
but they're also apparently some uh that
have died but their bodies were taken uh
to Gaza again they also stress that
between a 100 and 200 people are still
missing and um we've been visiting also
the place at a military base where um
those buddies are being um you know
where their forensic teams looking at
those buddies a very gruesome
identification process going on to
notify the families what happened uh to
their loved ones there DW correspondent
tanyaa thank you so much for that
update